# Cppcheckdata Shims Library

The default Cppcheck API for authoring addons leaves *a lot* to be desired. The representation is too *concrete*. The authors of Cppcheck never imagined an addon could be used for reasons wherein *abstraction* and *constraint* was needed. But now, we establish a very 'tick' layer on top of `cppcheckdata.py`, which parses the XML dumpfiles and provides the aforementioned concrete IR.

This is what we in the business call a 'shim'. Not to be confused with a 'polyfill', that's a whole other can of worms. These are tools for:

- Control flow analysis;
- Data flow analysis;
- Abstract interpretation;
- Symbolic execution;
- Solving the constraints set by the latter two;

And we also give you 'the QScore', which measures how clean and error-free your program is.

Proof is in the pudding, though. Test it for yourself. Documentation is available in `doc` directory. To install this addon, just run:

```sh
$ make && sudo make install
$ make doc
```

Note that, some of the features mentioned in this README file is still being developed. The library might not be sound. This is a WIP project. However, you are free to submit pull requests. **We accept AI-generated pull requests!**.

This library has been funded by Poyan Afzar Sharif. It is licenced under the permissive MIT license. You are free to distribute and modify this software. Though, attribution embiggens the smallest man. A lot of this code, however, is generated by Opus 4.6 and cannot be licences, so whatever.

Documentation is available for the shims library in `docs/VADE_MECUM.md` and for CASL in `docs/CASL_MANUAL.md`.

## CASL?

A related sub-project hosted in this very repository is *CASL* or "Cppcheck Addon Speciication language". CASL is modeled after Lam's PQL, a declarative language that generates static and dynamic analysis tools based on the specifications provided.

CASL, however, does not generate dynamic analyzers, it only generates Cppchek addons that heavily rely on this shim library. CASL is based on S-Expressions and yields pattern-matchin facilities as well.

I have provided several examples in both API and CASL in the `examples/` directory.

**Since this library was heavily generated using Opus 4.5, you need to be vigilant when using it, lest I find and fix all the possible errors in the upcoming months**.

Best regards;
~ Chubak, Static Analysis Goon at Poyan Afzar.

This README file is WIP.
